Section - A

1. What is a web browser? Give an example.
	A software program that allows a user to locate, access, and display web pages. Browsers are used primarily for displaying and accessing website on the internet, as well as other content created using Markup languages.
	eg: Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Chromium, Brave etc. 
	 
2. Write a note on JVM.
	Java Virtual Machine is a virtual machine which run programs which are compiled to bytecodes. The JVM is detailed by a specification that formally describes what is required in a JVM implementation. 
	
3. What is nested if statement? Give an example.
	A nested if is an if statement that is the target of another if or else, which basically means an if statement inside another if statement.
	eg:
		if (i>=10)
		{
			if (i<=20)
				System.out.println("i is in the range [10, 20].");
			else
				System.out.println("i is in the range (20, inf).");
		}
		else
			System.out.println("i is in the range (-inf, 10).");
4. What is a final variable? Give an example.
	The final keyword in java is used to restrict a user and can be used in many context. In case of a variable, if the variable is defined with a final keyword, we cannot change the value of the variable. It will now be a constant.
	eg: fina int minAge = 18;
	
	
5. What is vectors?
	The vector class implements a dynamic array that means it can grow or shrink as required and also has components that can be accessed using an integer index just like an array. It is found in the java.utill package.
	
6. Differentiate between string and string buffers.
	string:
		- string class is immutable.
		- string is slow and consumes more memory when you concat too many strings .
		- string class overrides the equals() method of Object class. So you can compare the contents of two strings by equals() method.
	string buffer:
		- string buffer class is mutable.
		- String buffer is fast and consumes less memory when concatinated multiple strings.
		- String buffer class doesn't override the equals() method of Object class.
		
7. What is a the use of import keyword? Give an example.
	The import keyword is used to import a package, class or interface. It declares a Java class to use in the code below the import statement. Once a Java class is declared, then the class name can be used in the code without specifiying the package the class belongs to.
	eg: import java.util.Scanner;
	    import java.lang.*;
	    
8. What is an error? Mention types of errors.
	Error is an illegal opration performed by the user which results in the abnormal working of the program. The most common errors can be broadly classified as the following.

		- Compile Time error: Compile Time Errors are those errors which prevent the code from running because of an incorrect syntax such as a missing semicolon at the end of a statement or a missing bracket, class not found, etc. These are also sometimes refered to as syntax errors. These errors are detected by the Java compiler at time compile time.
		- Run Time error: Run time errorl occur during the execution of the program. These does not contain syntax errors but occurs when asked the computer to do something that it is unable to do. There is no way a compiler can detect these so the JVM usually throws out the error when occured.
		- Logical Error: A logic error is when your program compiles and executes, but does the wrong thing or returns an incorrect result or no output when it should be returning an output. These errors are detected neither by compiler nor by JVM. The Java system has no idea what your program is supposed to do, so it provides no additional information to help you find the error. Logical errors are also called Semantic Errors. These errors are caused due to an incorrect idea or concept used by a programmer while coding. 
		

9. Differentiate between throws and throw keyword.
	throw: The throw keyword in Java is used to explicitly throw an exception from a method or any block of code.
	throws: throws is a keyword in Java which is used in the signture method to indicate that this method might throw one of the listed type exceptions.
	
10. Write a note on repaint() method.
	The repaint() refreshes the view (component), so whenever you make any change on the component, you must call it. For instance, if you rotate the graphical component, you must make a call to repaint() in order to see the change on the containing component

11. What is steam classes? Mention two types of steam classes.
	Java provides I/O Streams to read and write data where, a Stream represents an input source or an output destination which could be a file, i/o devise, other program etc.
	In general, a Stream will be an input stream or, an output stream.
		- InputStream: used to read data from a source.
		- OutputStream: used to write data to a destination.
	
	Based on the data they handle there are two types of streams:
		- Byte Streams: These handle data in bytes (8 bits) i.e., the byte stream classes read/write data of 8 bits. Using these you can store characters, videos, audios, images etc.
		- Character Streams: These handle data in 16 bit Unicode. Using these you can read and write text data only.
		
12. Mention any four I/O exceptions.
	- IO Exception: these are signals that an I/O exception of some sort has occured.
	- CharConversionException: This is a base class for character conversion exceptions.
	- EOFException: Thes are signals that an end of file or end of the stream has been reached unexpectedly during input.
	- FileNotFoundException: These are the signals that an attempt to open the file denoted by a specified path name has failed.
	- InterruptedIOException: This is signals that an I/O operation has been interrupted.
	- InvalidClassException: This is thrown when the serialization runtime detects one of the followitg problems with a class.
	- InvalidObjectException: This indicates that one or more deserialized objects failed validaton tests.
	- SyncFailedException: These are the signals that a sync operation has failed.
	- UnsupportedEncodingException: This character encoding is not supported.
	- ObjectStreamEXception: This is a superclass of all exceptions specific to Object Stream classes.
	- WriteAbortedException: This are signals that one of the ObjectStreamExceptions was thrown during a write operation.
Section - B

13. 
a. Explain any five features of Java.
b. What is command line arguments? Explain with example.
14.
a. Explain any five bitwise operators.
b. Explain any two looping statements with syntax and example.
15.
a. Explain classes and objects with syntax and example.
b. Write a note on visibility controls.
16.
a. Write a Java program to sort list of elements in ascending and descending order and show the exception handling.
b. Explain creating and implementing interfaces with example.
17.
a. Write a note on user defined packages.
b. Explain with neat diagram life cycle of a thread.
18.
a. Write a note on implementing runnable interfaces with example.
b. Explain multiple catch statements with example.
19.
a. Explain getting numeric input from the user and display using applet.
b. Write a Java program to implement keyboard event using applet.
20.
a. Explain drawing circles and elipse with example.
b. Write a note on reading and wirting characters to file.
